README.md, before:

#  Matcha
**What cool people drink**

Earl Grey is a great tool to test our iOS apps via instrumental tests. With them, we can mimic user actions like tapping a button, scrolling, or typing. Then, we can assert that a text appears in the screen, a view is visible or invisible, or a button is enabled or not.

On the other hand, if you tried Earl Grey, you’ll agree that its API is not discoverable or friendly.

Matcha introduces a discoverable API for the Earl Grey features. So, you and all the iOS team will write instrumental tests with no effort.


## Matcha's actions

### Tapping

```swift

tap(.accessibilityID("AnythingTappableID"))
tap(.text("ButtonTitle"))

tap(.text("CellTitle"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))

```
### Scrolling

```swift

scrollTo(.accessibilityID("AnythingTappableID"), inElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))

```

### Typing

```swift

type("Username", inElementWith: .accessibilityID("UsernameTextFieldID"))

```
### Interacting with the keyboard

```swift

tapKeyboardReturnKey()

```

## Matcha's assertions

```swift

assertVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"))
assertVisible(.accessibilityID("EmptyStateID"))
assertVisible(.class(UIActivityIndicator.class))

assertVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))
assertVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("RegularScrollViewID"))

assertNotVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"))
assertNotVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))

```

### Verifying TableView content

```swift

//BEWARE: This also verifies that the table view has only one section, 2 good assertions in 1 :)
assert(tableViewWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"), hasRowCount: 30)

//This does the same as the previous assertion but you can specify the section.
assert(tableViewWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"), hasRowCount: 30, inSection: 1)

assert(tableViewWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"), hasSectionCount: 2)

```

## Matcha's matchers

In order to find interface elements and perform actions on them, we need some matchers. In other libraries this is achieved by finding an element via the _accessibilityLabel_ property of a view, but this property is meant for VoiceOver, and shouldn't be used for testing.
Or yes, it's completely up to you, but at least you can choose :)

The most important matchers are:

```swift

Matcher.text(String)
Matcher.accessibilityID(String)
Matcher.accessibilityLabel(String)
Matcher.class(AnyClass)

```
Using the _.accessibilityLabel(String)_ matcher is not recommended. It can interfere with the user experience when using VoiceOver i.e.; if you put internal element identifiers, VoiceOver will read them.

Commit message:

Updated readme with installation instructions and a conforting, pragmatic message.

README.md, after:

#  Matcha
**What cool people drink**

Earl Grey is a great tool to test our iOS apps via instrumental tests. With them, we can mimic user actions like tapping a button, scrolling, or typing. Then, we can assert that a text appears in the screen, a view is visible or invisible, or a button is enabled or not.

On the other hand, if you tried Earl Grey, you’ll agree that its API is not discoverable or friendly.

Matcha introduces a discoverable API for the Earl Grey features. So, you and all the iOS team will write instrumental tests with no effort.

Benefits of using EarlGrey(via Matcha) over other UI testing libraries:

> EarlGrey’s synchronization features help to ensure that the UI is in a steady state before actions are performed. This greatly increases test stability and makes tests highly repeatable.

In simpler words, when travis is shitting itself with overloaded machines, your tests won't crash, they'll wait patiently.

## Installation

### Cocoapods

You'll be thankful you didn't have to follow EarlGrey's weird installation instructions

```
pod 'Matcha'
```

## Matcha's actions

### Tapping

```swift

tap(.accessibilityID("AnythingTappableID"))
tap(.text("ButtonTitle"))

tap(.text("CellTitle"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))

```
### Scrolling

```swift

scrollTo(.accessibilityID("AnythingTappableID"), inElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))

```

### Typing

```swift

type("Username", inElementWith: .accessibilityID("UsernameTextFieldID"))

```
### Interacting with the keyboard

```swift

tapKeyboardReturnKey()

```

## Matcha's assertions

```swift

assertVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"))
assertVisible(.accessibilityID("EmptyStateID"))
assertVisible(.class(UIActivityIndicator.class))

assertVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))
assertVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("RegularScrollViewID"))

assertNotVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"))
assertNotVisible(.text("EmptyStateText"), inScrollableElementWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"))

```

### Verifying TableView content

```swift

//BEWARE: This also verifies that the table view has only one section, 2 good assertions in 1 :)
assert(tableViewWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"), hasRowCount: 30)

//This does the same as the previous assertion but you can specify the section.
assert(tableViewWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"), hasRowCount: 30, inSection: 1)

assert(tableViewWith: .accessibilityID("TableViewID"), hasSectionCount: 2)

```

## Matcha's matchers

In order to find interface elements and perform actions on them, we need some matchers. In other libraries this is achieved by finding an element via the _accessibilityLabel_ property of a view, but this property is meant for VoiceOver, and shouldn't be used for testing.
Or yes, it's completely up to you, but at least you can choose :)

The most important matchers are:

```swift

Matcher.text(String)
Matcher.accessibilityID(String)
Matcher.accessibilityLabel(String)
Matcher.class(AnyClass)

```
Using the _.accessibilityLabel(String)_ matcher is not recommended. It can interfere with the user experience when using VoiceOver i.e.; if you put internal element identifiers, VoiceOver will read them.
